# SmartPhysiotherapy
Smart exercise prescription, evaluation and Realtime feedback system
3D Joint-based Physiotherapy System for Stroke Rehabilitation with Automatic Assessment and Feedback using Kinect

Stroke is one of the leading cause of death and disability worldwide. It occurs when the blood supply to the brain is interrupted or reduced, which results in the death of the brain cells. It affects millions of people, annually. These patients required regular assistance from trained therapists to recover their motor control. Such assistance for numerous stroke patients is both expensive and hard to obtain. We address this issue of non-availability by making an effective and efficient physical rehabilitation system for the hemiplegic stroke patients which provides interactive exercise guide, automatic exercise evaluation and feedback in realtime. The Rehabilitation exercises are well defined and repetitive in nature hence, rule based motion recognition approaches are widely being used for solving exercise recognition problem. Such approaches have a major limitation which for defining exercise definitions problematically we need to define specific rules programmatically, which requires extensive programming skills. To provide the remedy of this limitation, we proposed a modified template based framework which uses a motion template for defining exercise definition which could be used for exercise guidance, evaluation and realtime feedback. The Dynamic time warping (DTW) algorithm is used for exercise evaluation. The proposed system, based on templates, automatically defines rules for exercise definitions such as, interactive exercise guidance, automatic exercise assessment, realtime feedback and mirror therapy for physical rehabilitation using marker-less motion capturing technology provided by Microsoft Kinect and augmented reality (AR). We have developed a fully working and deployable physiotherapy system specifically for ROM exercises. The system has been tested for AROM and AAROM exercises and found efficient and reliable by physiotherapy team. 
